---
title: The Other
category: Imaginable
layout: post
---

<span class="first-sentence">I always</span> do this for the drain not to clog. It’s disgusting, <ins title="edited on 2022/11/21">I know,</ins> but what I’m going to tell you is even worse. I was showering<del>.</del><ins title="edited on 2022/11/21"> and</ins><del> I</del> had already made my little hairball and put it carefully over the sink<del title="edited on 2022/11/21">. It was then</del> when my thoughts unexpectedly became indomitable.

<ins title="edited on 2022/11/21">And</ins><del>E</del><ins>e</ins>ven though I tried to trick my mind by introducing new subjects through which it could divert itself<del title="edited on 2022/11/21">: </del><ins title="edited on 2022/11/21">—</ins>the pimple on my face, the wall fungus, my wish to be free <del title="edited on 2022/11/21">—</del><ins>(</ins>really free<ins>)</ins>— I could not get rid of this insane and unusual idea. 

That, making use of a mixture of mental power —a clean guided thought— and feeling, I could breathe life into my hairball (the little ball that I always do with the hair that comes out when I wash my head). <del title="edited on 2023/03/21">And that t</del><ins title="edited on 2023/03/21">T</ins>here was only one substance that, if applied at the moment of alchemy, was able to boycott this procedure.

<em><ins title="edited on 2023/03/21">Fear.</ins> In fact, it is fear what prevents <del title="edited on 2023/03/21">all</del><ins title="edited on 2023/03/21">any</ins> kind of miracle<del title="edited on 2023/03/21">s that</del> a human being is able to perform. And it’s not <ins title="edited on 2023/03/21">that</ins> you fear failure. Having success at an enterprise of that sort would put you in such an unexpected place that, for a moment, you’d be lost. <ins title="edited on 2023/03/21">It is</ins><del title="edited on 2023/03/21">T</del><ins title="edited on 2023/03/21">t</ins>hat moment <ins title="edited on 2023/03/21">that</ins> terrifies you.</em>

But you started slowly to move. Obviously, I couldn’t believe it at first, but... you were walking. I stood still, so stiff I was that I immobilized you. You looked at me for a while and then jumped. I mean, you were still a hairball. You were my hair with little legs (of hair) walking, with little eyes (of hair) staring. Then you were no longer made of hair. You were a cockroach.

At that moment, an encompassing thought arose in me. It didn’t get to be a thought. It was half way between a thought and a feeling.

I saw myself in you, cockroach, and somehow I knew it. I was you, thinking like you, feeling your feelings. I was on my side too, horrified.

The night came. In my sleep, your tiny legs caressed my hair. I was dreaming I was you, that you were with me, that the worlds hadn’t separated to let us do our thing. The unreal reality I had lived the day before blended with the real unreality of my dream. While you hid under my pillow and, like me, slept for a while, you weren’t the hair roach anymore, you were a beautiful being, a mixture between butterfly and seahorse. 

At some moment, our dreams merged and you weren’t the flying seahorse anymore, nor were you the little ball of hair breathed with life. You were a simple hairball, what you always wanted to be, what you had always been. I too was dreaming of going back to my original state, to my world, where I wasn’t dependant on a body or on physical laws. Then, at one point, the reality of normal life woke up.

I searched everywhere: under the bed, in the living-room, inside the toilet… no noise gave you away. Cruch, cruch, cruch… I wanted to hear, but… nothing.

Who would have thought that I would worry about the fate of a cockroach. On other times, disgust would have seized me to such a point that I wouldn’t even have had the courage to step on you, the mere thought of the sound of your exoskeleton breaking and the white juice coming out would have paralyzed me.

Now, the simple thought of something bad happening to you gave me an infinite sadness. I wanted you with me, caressing me with your tiny antennae as before, sleeping under my pillow.

Then, in the mirror, I saw you. You barely moved your leg. You had settled into my hair to be consistent, or warmer. But it didn’t bother me, what’s more, I liked it because I had forgotten a little bit that you were a cockroach and had rememberes more that you came from me, from my hair, from my will to create you. You came from my life because you were in it and you were part of me for that. It was me the cockroach… IT WAS ME THE COCKROACH.
<br/><br/><br/>
I wake up all sweaty an run to the bathroom. In the mirror I am not able to distinguish it, so blended with my other hairs. Underneath my pillow there was one hair, but that is not forceful proof. I make myself a coffee and still feel the dream all over my body. 

<hr class="column">
<div lang="es" class="spanish">
<p><span class="first-sentence">Siempre</span> hago esto para que no se tape el desagüe. Es asqueroso, pero lo que les voy a contar es todavía peor. Me estaba duchando. Ya había formado mi bolita de pelo y la había depositado cuidadosamente sobre la pileta. Fue entonces cuando mis pensamientos se volvieron inesperadamente indomables.</p>

<p>Aunque intenté engañar a mi mente introduciendo nuevos temas por los cuales pudiera derivarse: el grano de mi cara, el hongo del azulejo, mi deseo de ser libre —realmente libre—, no lograba despegarme de esta loca e inusual idea.</p> 

<p>Que haciendo uso de una mezcla de poder mental —un pensamiento limpio dirigido— y sentimiento, podía insuflar vida a mi bolita (la bolita que siempre hago con el pelo que se me sale al lavarme la cabeza). Y que existía una sola sustancia que, aplicada en el momento de la alquimia, podía boicotear este procedimiento.</p> 

<p>El miedo. <em>De hecho, es el miedo el que impide cualquier tipo de milagro que un ser humano es capaz de hacer. Y no es que teman al fracaso. Tener éxito en una empresa tal los pondría en un lugar tan inesperado que, por un instante, estarían perdidos. Ese instante los aterra.</em></p> 

<p>Pero empezaste lentamente a moverte. Obviamente, primero no lo creí, pero… estabas caminando. Me quedé dura, tan dura que me quedé que te inmovilicé. Me miraste un ratito y después saltaste. O sea, todavía eras una bola de pelo. Eras mi pelo con patitas (de pelo) caminando, con ojitos (de pelo) que me miraban. Después ya no eras de pelo. Eras una cucaracha.</p> 

<p>Me surgió, en ese momento, un pensamiento abarcador. No llegó a ser un pensamiento. Estaba a medio camino entre un pensamiento y un sentimiento.</p> 

<p>Me vi en vos, cucaracha. Estaba de tu lado, pensando como vos, sintiendo tus sentimientos… Y también estaba de mi lado, horrorizada.</p> 

<p>La noche llegó. Mientras dormía, tus patitas me acariciaban el pelo. Soñaba que era vos, que estabas conmigo... que los mundos no se habían separado para poder hacer lo nuestro. Se mezclaba la realidad irreal que había vivido en el día con la irrealidad real de mi sueño. Mientras te escondías debajo de mi almohada y, como yo, dormías un rato, ya no eras la cucaracha de pelo, eras un bicho hermoso, una mezcla de mariposa y caballito de mar.</p> 

<p>En algún momento, nuestros sueños se fundieron y ya no eras el caballito de mar volador, ni la bolita de pelo insuflada de vida: eras una bolita de pelo simple, lo que siempre quisiste ser, lo que eras antes de mi intervención. También yo soñaba que volvía a mi verdadero estado, a mi mundo, en el que no dependía de un cuerpo. Después, en un momento dado, la realidad de la vida normal despertó.</p> 

<p>Busqué por todos lados: debajo de la cama, en el living, dentro del inodoro… ningún ruido te delataba. Cruch, cruch, cruch… deseaba escuchar, pero… nada.</p> 

<p>Quién diría que llegaría a preocuparme por la suerte de una cucaracha. En otros días, el asco me hubiese embargado hasta el punto de que ni siquiera habría tenido el coraje de pisarte, el solo pensar en el ruido de tu exoesqueleto quebrándose y en el juguito blanco saliendo me habría paralizado.</p> 

<p>Ahora, en cambio, el imaginar que algo malo pudiera pasarte me daba una tristeza infinita. Quería tenerte conmigo, que me acariciaras con tus antenitas como antes, dormir con vos debajo de mi almohada.</p> 

<p>Entonces, en el espejo, te vi. Apenas movías la patita. Te habías acomodado en mi pelo para estar acorde, o más calentita. Pero a mí no me molestaba, es más, me gustaba porque me había olvidado un poco de que eras una cucaracha y me había acordado más que venías de mí, de mi pelo, de mi voluntad de crearte. Venías de mi vida porque estabas en ella y eras parte de mí por eso. Era yo la cucaracha… ERA YO LA CUCARACHA.</p> 
<br/>
<p>Me despierto de golpe y corro al baño. En el espejo, no logro distinguirla, tan mezclada con mis otros pelos. Debajo de mi almohada había un pelo, pero esa no es prueba suficiente. Me preparo un café y todavía siento el sueño por todo mi cuerpo.</p> 
</div>
